[Music]
hi there and welcome to the keeping and
breast podcast I am your host Dr Jen
Simmons and I have an amazing person
with us
today Dr Thomas CED has more accolades
than I could possibly mention in the
course of this podcast he is a brilliant
scientist a brilliant
researcher and and he is the author of
The metabolic approach to cancer and has
really done the work on
defining why we get cancer how cancer
grows why cancer grows and is working
diligently to come up with solutions
that we all need to hear about and
embrace if we are going to make an
impact on cancer going forward so I
first want to welcome you Dr CED I'm so
delighted to have you here well thank
you very much Jen it's really nice to be
here with you yeah um let's like just
tackle that 800 pound gorilla in the
room because your work not intentionally
I don't think started with the work of
Dr OT warberg and kind of Grew From
There although did did you know about
his work when you started yours um not
really um the word we've always heard of
the word warber but we I never really uh
did a deep dive into what what he what
he was actually doing until until we
started to do the work with EP I worked
in epilepsy for years um at Yale
University initially we were mapping
genes for epilepsy and then um one of my
students uh wanted to do some uh
research on ketogenic diets because
that's where all these ketogenic diets
really started with the epilepsy field
and the the guys at y I was in the
Department of Neurology at Yale
University in New Haven and um they were
big on epilepsy so that was the whole
that was one of the leading departments
in the in the field of epilepsy at that
time in the 70s and 80s um and um I I I
wrote an article I I wrote to get an
internal Grant on ketogenic diet at that
time and they said no nobody's
interested and this is p so I dropped it
um uh and then when I came to Boston
College I had one of my students uh we
were doing a lot of work on epilepsy and
they wanted to go to this meeting in on
the west coast with Jim Abrams who
started the Charlie Foundation Jim Jim
was a movie producer produced these
airplane movies and also with Merill
Streep doing the first Do no harm movie
so he was kind of a heavyweight but his
son had uh uh intractable Epal epilepsy
and and they were doing all kinds of
things and he wasn't getting better and
then he found out that the the John
Hopkins University in in Maryland um uh
was the big
uh Center of ketogenic diets I think it
was there anyway John's Hopkins and and
um my student came back and said oh
everybody's really excited about this
ketogenic diet for epilepsy so we
started doing all this we had all these
beautiful models of epilepsy and the
next thing you
know uh we're doing restricted calorie
epilepsy and all this kind of stuff but
we also had a big project on brain
cancer and it was all pure biochemistry
it wasn't anything um and then uh it
turned out that um Linda nebling at Case
Western Reserve took two hopeless cases
of children that had brain tumors um
um they they were high-grade gomas and
the kids were surgically mutilated and
suffered brain damage and Linda for her
PhD a nursing get a a PhD in nursing
there uh decided to put these two kids
on the there was two or three kids on
the ketogenic diet based on OT wiberg's
finding that cancers are driven by
glucose and we knew that so is epileptic
seizures triggered by glucose so uh
Linda was the one who said let's see if
we can get some therapeutic benefit from
ketogenic diet with brain cancer and
that was in
1995 and when I saw that paper there
were only three citations to it and I
said wow this is really interesting so I
took our preclinical model models of
brain cancer which are the best models
for human brain cancer high-grade gomas
and we started to treat with um our two
projects were simult going together the
epilepsy and the brain cancer projects
but we realized calor restriction would
also lower glucose and Elevate ketones
just like a ketogenic diet we were
getting spectacular results and it was
lowering glucose and elevating ketones
and then we moved into calorie
restricted ketogenic diets which were
even more more powerful and it all came
back to what OT warberg said he said
that all these cancer cells have
defective respiration mitochondrial
defects and in order to survive they
must ferment and glucose was a
fermentable fuel so uh then we did a
deeper dive for 20 M more than 20 years
now trying to feret out mechanisms of
action out of warberg was 100% correct
all cancers breast cancer colon cancer
brain cancer lung cancer bladder cancer
melanomas blood cancers they all have
the same problem they they must ferment
they can't use respiration making a
ketogenic calorie restricted ketogenic
diet a potential therapy for all major
cancers and we were able to show that
all these cancers have defects in
mitochondria structure and function
forcing them into a fermentation and
then the big Discovery was that not only
glucose but the amino acid glutamine
could also be fermented so warberg did
not know about that so that's our our
major contribution the several
contributions number but one warberg
tried to quantify the amount of ATP that
was being produced through fermentation
and respiration can't do that we have
clearly shown that that is it's not
accurate that warberg was saying he was
100% correct on the origin of cancer he
his readouts caused a tremendous amount
of
controversy um and led to a lot of
misunderstanding we cleared that up he
did not know about amino acid
fermentation we cleared that up uh so we
cleared up uh connected the do and
cleared up a lot of misunderstandings
and misinformation and now we're ready
to um change the standard of care for
cancer uh based on our new understanding
that it's primarily a metabolic disease
it's not a genetic disease I published
many papers on that but that concept
that cancer is a genetic disease is the
driving force for the entire cancer
industry which includes the academic
industry as well as the pharmaceutical
industry as well as the hospital
Industries the oncology field so they're
all making drugs and therapies based on
a on a on a incorrect Theory it's not a
genetic disease it's a mitochondrial
metabolic disorder and the reason why
can can you talk a little bit
about why they why it's so accepted that
cancer is a genetic disease like what do
you mean by that and why is that theory
so accepted um uh it's ideological Dogma
it's it's not any different than a
religion or a polit a political
persuasion you're you're you're not
going to get a person of Jewish religion
to accept Islam uh anymore than you're
going to get someone who who is who
practices Islam to accept Judaism as the
as this is what we call ideological
Dogma it's a solidification of the
brain's thinking along certain lines and
political you know there's political
things that Democrats Republicans but
but people are are are LED into these
ideological States supported by a large
amount of data of course um when uh
warberg was battling this out in the
1930s 40s and 50s uh the field
discovered DNA and uh as the as the as
the code directing protein uh and
signaling sequences and activity and
everybody like lemings ran off the cliff
chasing all the code and the genes and
left warberg behind and the controversy
that was associated with the
biochemistry was left behind and then of
course several Nobel prizes were
awarded um for enogen and tumor
suppressor genes and and it made biology
more
quantitative so everybody thought that
was really cool and really exciting and
the NIH uh jumped into this bandwagon
and at the don't forget in 1971
President Nixon declared the war on
cancer pushed by Mary Lasker who was
said we the government needs to play a
bigger role in this cancer thing so uh
um and that was all pointed out in Sid
mukerji's book The Emperor of all
maladies he has he does a very nice job
about the history of cancer but Nixon
said we're going to cure cancer just you
know um a big a big federal government
project on this and it wasn't happening
as quickly as people thought because
that was
1971 and it and the cures weren't coming
uh so the federal the ni NIH National
Cancer Institute made a decision in
1984 that we should invite in the
pharmaceutical companies that might uh
accelerate the development of drugs um
so that was 1984 the fox came into the
hen house in
1984 um and then we started making all
these different kinds of of drugs uh the
genome projects uh we started talking
about Precision medicine personalized
therapies and and all these kinds of
things um and we said people at that
time felt if we can map all the
different mutations and chromosomal
abnormalities in tumor cells then we can
make specific drugs to kill and Target
those things well that never happened it
never happened because cancer is not a
genetic disease and it never will happen
so it's a massive detour uh that's
unfortunately led to the inadvertent
deaths of hundreds of millions of people
uh around the world because these drugs
that were built were being developed
from the pharmaceutical company
immunotherapies and all these kinds of
things they're all based on the sematic
mutation Theory it's a genetic theory
it's not it's not a genetic I did
nuclear transfer experiments I I did
over and over I did all kinds of
experiments to show Cancer Cannot Be A
genetic disease you have to be
cognitively impaired or an a dogmatic
ideologue to think that this is the case
and uh yet but there's an entire yeah
cancer industry based on that theory yes
how's that working for us not working
but why don't people realize that it's
not working because it's the dogma and
and it's power and and if you go back
and look at the history of theories of
science you can see it played out over
and over again the geocentric
heliocentric theory of the solar system
okay that's where um people thought and
pushed by uh mostly theologians that the
Earth was the center of the solar system
um and if you challenged you could end
up like Gano Bruno uh burned alive in in
one of the centers of Rome one of the
little squares in Rome for his challenge
of the
theologians uh that no the the the sun
is the center of the solar system based
on the Kernan model Galileo used the
telescope to support cernus and he was
house arrested he would have been
executed as well uh had he not had
political connections and then you had
Kepler putting the um uh putting the the
orbits into more accurate terms
eventually the theory that the
geocentric theory that the Earth was the
center of the collapsed and now we know
the sun is the center of the solar
system but it took it took centuries for
people to see the data and look at it
you can look at the germ theory of Lewis
pastur he was brutalized uh by the by
the medical community to say germs that
you couldn't see were responsible for
all these infectious kinds of diseases
brutally ized and then you have the
theory Darwin's theory of evolution by
natural selection and even to this day
people can't even understand that so
these theories are are are foundational
they change but let me tell you
something in none of those theories
whether it was the heliocentric
geocentric uh whether it was The Germ
Theory or or or whether it was this
theory of evolution whether you accepted
or did not accept those theories was not
responsible for over 17 over, 1650
people a day dying so as we speak here
in an hour 70 people will be dead from
cancer and that dead from cancer because
the theory under which the disease is V
is viewed is incorrect and once you
understand that it's a metabolic disease
caused by mitochondrial dysfunction
forcing into a fermentation metabolism
the strategies for managing cancer will
be completely different non-toxic and
powerfully therapeutic okay so so let's
start to break that down because I mean
I know you don't need me to agree with
you but I agree with you cancer is a
metabolic disease cancer is due to
metabolic dysfunction so what does that
mean to the person who didn't go to
medical school who didn't do
biochemistry who who they you know that
those are that that's a foreign language
to them so explain what is
happening and why cancer is a metabolic
disease so uh all cancers that we have
examined have that have uh abnormalities
in the structure and function of the
mitochondria now I I have to be honest
with you there's some level of
scientific literacy uh that's necessary
and that's one of the things that I
drive home and the students here at
Boston College we pound out scientific
literacy you have to have some
fundamental knowledge of things I mean
today you can go to Google and you can
and you can see these things the other
thing too I want to point out right up
front is that what I am telling you I
have published in Open Access papers so
if anybody well he didn't do this he
didn't say that what does he mean by
this go to the papers and read them I I
I mean these are 25 years of research in
those papers and I can't speak to every
minutia detail uh of of the problem of
course but getting back to but but most
of my listeners have taken seventh grade
biology yeah and they know what the cell
looks like and they know what the
mitochondria looks like and they
understand that the mitochondria is the
energy producing unit of the cell yeah
so I think that they can understand that
mitochondrial dysfunction may lead to
disease
States yes so okay M the normal cells in
our body like the normal cells we we're
all breathing right now you're breathing
I'm breathing that oxygen hopefully
unless we're zombies right I always tell
my students how do you think a zom gets
energy you know um they obviously have
to be ferment because they don't breathe
right they're they're walking dead so
they got to be fermenting and this is
the same thing with the cancer cell you
know um if if you take cyanide or I take
cyanide we'd be dead in very s very soon
within 30 seconds we're minute we're
dead right no no cancer cells can live
in cyanide so this is a a a clue that
warberg had also shown many many years
ago wow so in other words every uh uh
cell in our body that's using oxygen to
produce energy through the mitochondria
would be killed instantly if we gave
them cyanide because it blocked
cytochrome C oxidase the the the part of
the electron transport chain that allows
oxygen to be reduced in us to produce
ATP which is the currency not the cancer
cell so that tells us right off the bat
there what's going on how come the
cancer cell isn't killed because it
doesn't use oxygen it's uses very the
oxygen that a cancer cell uses is for
something for activities other than
energy production it produces very
little energy from from okay that tells
us well then where do they get the how
is this cell able to
grow if it doesn't use oxygen like the
normal cells of our body and the answer
is it ferments well what does that mean
it means energy without oxygen how do we
know this because we life on Earth
evolved in the absence of oxygen in the
atmosphere all right the cyanobacteria
produced the oxygen so we we all life
evolved in a hypoxic anoxic kind of a of
a of an atmosphere and they those cells
all grew and proliferated despite the
absence of oxygen and they would grow in
an unbridled unregulated way until the
fermentable fuels that they used were
dissipated and then these cells would
die what the cancer cells are doing is
essentially for falling back on Ancient
metabolic pathways that existed before
oxygen came into the atmosphere and
these are called fermentation Pathways
so once you know that how do you know
that because the they produce waste
products of fermentation large amounts
of lactic acid which is a a bi end
product of glucose fermentation are
producing cancer cells and this is why
everybody's ex oh the cancer has an
acidic micro environment yes because
it's stumping out acids from
fermentation metabolism so what did they
use and we have interrogated these tumor
cells uh
uh okay so yeah we did the record we did
the interrogation of all the different
amino acids and things that the T cells
can survive on yes the sugar glucose is
the predominant sugar it's metabolized
to lactic acid and and the lactic acid
is dumped out of the out of the cell
into the micro environment causing an
acidification we also found that the
amino acid
glutamine is the only amino acid that
can also be fermented can be used in the
absence of oxygen so what we have
defined now is that the the the
vulnerability we now know that these
tumor cells cannot live without
these two fermentable fuels we have
looked at fatty acid we've looked at we
can't find any other fuel that will
allow the tumor cells to survive in the
absence of glucose and glutamine fatty
acids Ketone bodies lactic acid they
they can't use any other fuel except
fermentable fuels fatty acids and Ketone
bodies are not fermentable so the
solution to the cancer problem is not
that complicated you have to C you have
to restrict availability of glucose and
glutamine while transitioning the whole
body over to Ketone bodies which can be
done with calorie restricted ketogenic
diets water only fasting now glutamine
targeting glucose targeting is easy you
can do that with diets and fasting and
this kind of thing but you need drugs to
Target the glutamine you need drugs to
there's no food people say oh what can I
eat no no no glutamine is is is produced
in our bodies we have to use drugs to
Target the glutamine we exercise can
restrict glutamine somewhat but not
completely so uh water only fasting or
restricted ketogenic diets will
significantly lower blood sugar and then
at that time you need to take certain
drugs now we have a beautiful drug
called six deoxy norleucine d n it was
used in the clinics to manage children
cancer and adult cancer it was not
effective it was a little too toxic they
didn't know how to use the drug it was
used as a singular entity given with
glucose can you believe this and then
they said it didn't work so uh uh yet
well I think they've had they've had
lots of um situations like that like
vitamin C yeah well vitamin C you can't
eat the tumor cell can't uh use vitamin
C as as energy What vitamin c does is is
creates oxidative stress and under low
glucose and and low glutamine conditions
IV vitamin C can facilitate killing of
the tumor cells just like just like
hyperbaric oxygen can so oxidative
stress now you want to kill tumor cells
yeah radiation and toxic drugs create
oxidative stress but they also damage
significantly normal tissues yeah is it
possible to create oxidative stress in
breast cancer cells or any other cancer
cell without creating collateral damage
that's the key and the answer is
absolutely so um what we do is we uh
when for the cancer patients that my I'm
not a physician so I can't treat anybody
but I can certainly guide physicians in
treating their patients and and uh what
we do is we get the patient into a state
of nutritional ketosis first off uh make
sure they get healthy a lot of cancer
patients they have obesity type 2
diabetes they have hypertension high
blood pressure sometimes parasitic
infections you can't believe how
unhealthy some people are oh I believe
it I've been doing this for 25 years so
you you a firsthand knowledge right I
was to be honest with you I was kind of
shocked I didn't know how how sick and
how people walking around could be so
full of parasites and all kinds of
things uhhuh you know yeah right so we
have to clean that up okay step one get
get cleaned up get cleaned up and by
water only fasting zero carbohydrate
diets we slowly bring the body back into
a new state state of metabolic
homeostasis and then I at Boston College
here we developed the glucose Ketone
index calculator which is a ratio of
blood glucose to blood
ketones in the blood circulating level
of glucose to the Ketone so what we have
found and this is Diet irrelevant what
we have found if a if a cancer patient
can get the ratio down to 2.0 or below
preferably below the tumor C cell start
to get hammered because now you're
putting them under incredible metabolic
stress and that will that will really
down regulate the ability of the tumor
cell to survive but not they can hang on
because they're using some of that
glutamine so you come in with the pulse
and the pulsing now you use glutamine
targeting drugs while the patient is in
nutritional ketosis under low glucose
conditions and gradually you start to
tear down and break down the tumor and
as I said also the diabetes goes away
high blood pressure goes away obesity
goes away all these things go away along
with the cancer so um and that's only
because you're bringing your entire back
to the body the way it should have been
in the first place and it's very hard to
get cancer if your mitochondria remain
healthy uh we have seen this over and
over again so we're just essentially uh
re re re uh uh re reconfiguring what
metabolic health is is and we use small
doses of of drugs to Target the
glutamine
and uh yeah we can use IV vitamin C once
you're in nutritional ketosis even
conventional chemotherapies and
radiation therapy will work you can you
you have to you can use much much lower
doses of chemo and still get a
tremendous therapeutic benefit when the
body is in therapeutic ketosis so this
is the future and um again you have to
restrict the two fermentable fuels with
diet and drug and transition the body
over to ketosis because the tumor cells
can't burn Ketone bodies but the brain
heart and all your other cells muscles
can all burn fatty acids and and ketones
except liver liver Burns fatty acids so
um so this is the solution to the cancer
problem but but you're right it's a par
it's a monster Paradigm change uh
Physicians must be re-educated the the
National Institutes of Health have to
acknowledge this because the because we
continue to poison and IR radiate
hundreds and thousands of of people
because the promise of the genetic
theory failed it the the it we can we we
were hoping that the G because cancer
would be a genetic disease we would use
precision and medicine and all this then
we wouldn't have to use radiation and
chemo okay we still use radiation and
chemo because the promise of the somatic
mutation Theory never came never will
come do we understand that right so
we're not going to drop cancer death
rates until we recognize that cancer is
a mitochondrial metabolic disorder when
the field comes to recognize this you
will see cancer death rates drop by 50%
in five to 10
years
so I
mean do you think that's ever going to
happen uh if people want to live it's up
to them so it's gonna have to be driven
by the the people the population it's
it's not going to be driven by industry
there's no benefit to Industry um well
that then you're speaking on on on on
moral issues um what's the morality uh
of the field that's it's very
embarrassing to say I practice immoral
immorality and what I do for a living
you know if you're producing drugs that
are are very toxic and have the
potential to kill a patient or harm them
uh this is not this is
uh a little bit of a strange way of of
doing things but we've come to recognize
that now even even what we surgery is an
important component for the eventual
solution to the problem but it has to be
done in the right way um if you do
metabolic therapy you shrink down these
tumors the angiogenesis the inflammation
everything goes way down the whole thing
becomes less angry a surgeon now comes
in and debul and removes what's left you
don't go after the the tumor with
surgery when it's at its most inflamed
State because you'll get inflammatory
unot taxis okay biopsies can Institute
inflammatory unot taxis this is taking a
bad situation and making it worse shrink
it down first then surgically debulk so
do you think the first thing that should
happen with everyone is that they should
go on a fast and are we talking about a
water fast and how long are we talking
about well this is we we've learned and
when I first did all this with calorie
restriction in the mouse which is
comparable to water only fasting I said
the field is the humans the population
is not going to want to do
this okay your your brain is addicted uh
by glucose it's as powerful as cocaine
alcohol and nicotine glucose addiction
is powerful okay we have to walk
ourselves through the glucose addiction
how do we do that we uh slowly
transition our diet from carbohydrate to
non-carbohydrate it's it's very low
carbohydrate dieting for 10 to 14 days
allows the body to slowly acclimate to
the absence of carbohydrates then when
you jump into the water only fast it's
not so Draconian listen I have tried
that anybody who thinks this is easy
forget about it it's not easy now I've
sudden people say oh no I do it all the
time well that's great I um for those
folks I I I say well that's great but
when I try it man I that was brutal if
you go cold turkey on eating and say by
the third day I mean you're looking at
your pets in a different way you know so
uh I'm telling you you have no idea I
actually think the third day the third
day is the day you feel the best yeah
well that well some people that's not me
I tell you I was I was I wasn't in that
Z and the older you get the harder it's
harder is the young kids that I work
with they can do it easier it's your age
because how long you've been addicted to
the fuel that you're trying toate yeah
but no but I say we've seen even in zero
carb for 10 days it's it's you can feel
it your body can feel it but then you
start to gradually adapt then when you
jump into the water only fasting it's
not so it's a small step rather than a
jumping off the side of the the the
building so and then your body get
starts to get super healthy and and your
tumor your tumors are angiogenesis
inflammation all of these things go down
we did all the biochemical signaling
stuff to to show that inflammatory cyto
down angiogenesis the abnormal blood
vessels down uh apoptosis the killing of
the tumor cells goes up so we've did
this over over Decades of work what is
the what's happening to these tumor
cells what's happening to the micro
environment as you just go to the
fasting now when you get to that the
tumor cells are all barely struggling to
exist then you come in with these low
doses of drugs like some of these
parasite medications it turns out that
the the tumor cell and the parasite use
a similar Pathway to to get energy can
you believe this so so cancer is not a
parasite parasites a totally different
organism the parasite and the cancer
cells use Ancient fermentation Pathways
to stay alive so some of these cheap ass
parasite drugs are powerful especially
when you're in therapeutic ketosis I
mean what I'm explaining to you is is
the way we're going to eventually manage
cancer yeah so uh and everybody needs to
know that now the a lot of the burden
will fall on the shoulders of the
patient they are when when people say oh
he's battling his cancer when you do
metabolic therapy you are actually
battling your cancer you're not sitting
there as some bystander being nuked and
poisoned all right so you're you're
actually taking charge and that's why we
developed the glucose Ketone index
calculator so patients can know exactly
what they can and cannot eat people say
what can you eat can I eat this I don't
care what you eat what does it do to
your gko yeah if it's is why I can't get
my well then stop eating that I've had
some people say you know I was never
able to get into the 2.0 below until I
stopped eating just drank water I said
yeah now you know I said now you know
yeah but so how long are you doing that
and where does gluconeogenesis fit in
because aren't we aren't we designed to
just make glucose if it's not introduced
into our diet yes gluconeogenesis is the
case but the brain will suck up whatever
available glucose that you have very
little goes to anywhere else muscles
take it muscle and brain muscle does not
share glucose muscle is is keeps it
because we needed that for of our
evolutionary survival if we're being
chased by a lion or a bear we need to
have the energy to run away from it and
we need that energy it's in the muscle
the muscle then starts running if the
muscle says oh my my liver it does needs
a little but this a littleit all of a
sudden the bear comes we have no energy
and the bear eats it so this is not
productive so muscle does not share so
when you say gluconeogenesis a lot of
that's going to the muscle and a lot of
it's going to the brain and the cancer
cell is not getting it so so it's very
low cancer so how long are we talking
about doing these water fast for well I
what how how do we assess whether or not
you have a tumor you have a lump the
lump goes away or gets very small we
have pet scanning MRI we have all of
these different assessments to determine
blood markers you know ca25 we have a
lot of Mark markers to know whether or
not you still have tumors in your body
tumor cells in your body so I you know
pet scan like the breast cancer person
that my colleagues in in h turkey did
they did metabolic therapy with very low
dose chemo um I mean this woman was lit
up like a Christmas tree uh she had u u
metastatic breast cancer to her brain
lungs bone marrow I mean it was just
brutal when you looked at the Pet
Imaging and then within uh 6 months once
it was clean so um you know this woman
and we published the case it's people
want to get the case report we we
published it uh you know full response
to metabolic therapy this this poor
woman from Chic from uh Ohio um she had
Advanced she was considered a hopeless
terminal case one month to live they
give her she gets on a plane goes to
Istanbul to my colleagues there and um
she she was in the in the ICU for uh two
weeks uh she almost died from the plane
she was so sick with the ter the cancer
everywhere and the she had parasites she
had all kinds of horrible things anyway
my colleagues gradually got her out of
the ICU and uh started metabolic therapy
and now we're getting pictures of her
and her husband enjoying Hawaii they go
on vacation to Hawaii and uh it's like
unbelievable um so it can work if you do
it the right way I'm not saying it
happens to everybody like that but we
have advanced lung cancer to the brain
that guy is still alive we have brain
cancer guys as a matter of fact the
movie um um the big documentary on this
whole thing is called the cancer
Revolution produced by Maggie and Brad
Jones and they're they're cataloging now
all these so-called um hopeless cases
stage four cancers terminals uh cancer
patients uh that are all still living
far beyond what was expected uh of them
so so so and people say well we can't
believe this unless you do a clinical
trial okay that's the way that's the way
they has nothing to do with the hard
science that proves what I'm saying is
correct we can't do it because you
didn't do well why don't you guys do the
clinical trial and see what happens but
then oh no we can't do that so all of a
sudden why can't you do the you're
always telling me to do the clinical I'm
at Boston College I don't even at
Medical School why don't you guys do the
damn clinical tra but first of all well
we don't have trained people to okay
let's get people trained like you said
let's get them educated nurses physician
assistants practitioners Physicians
oncologists train them all here's what
you have to do and here's exactly how to
do it and we're working on the treatment
protocol as we speak we have one for
brain cancer that'll be adaptable to all
forms of cancer that's written by both
phds and MDS so we put everybody
together anybody had an issue we
corrected it and we polished it up and
it'll be the standard of care the future
standard of care for cancer breast
cancer colon cancer brain cancer it's
all going to be very very similar
because they all have the same problem
they're all from ERS so when I tell
people that they say you must be nuts
and how can cancer that everybody says
is the Emperor of all mality so
incredibly complicated because the
theory under which you looked at it was
wrong it's not a genetic disease if you
look at it as a it's hopelessly
complicated impossible to solve as a
genetic disorder as a metabolic disorder
no not a problem you are I'm not making
it out to be completely the problem is
getting people to adapt to the the that
on their shoulders how can they be
compliant so it's up to you you want to
live a lot of it has to do with your
adaptation your family's knowledge don't
forget this is a family this is a group
effort you can't feel isolated from your
colleagues and friends and family by
adopting that family must help and
participate it's a social thing okay
yeah for sure yeah and it's not only
that you have to reduce stress you when
you get the cancer diagnosis and someone
says you've got you know in um triple
negative breast cancer I mean you get a
shock it goes through your whole body
because you're looking at your your end
of your life on the planet okay and that
what that does is it raises
glucocorticoids stress hormon what does
that do makes your blood sugar go up
what does sugar do the sugar causes the
cancer to grow faster so you don't want
that you want you want stress management
techniques along with the metabolic
therapy that's targeting the the the V
AB ility of the tumor cells that's why
we built the Press pulse strategy
published a big paper with my physician
colleagues on the Press pulse metabolic
therapy uh to manage cancer it's a stage
process by which you bring your body
from a state of unhealth to a state of
health at the same time naturally
degrading the tumor without toxicity
it's beautiful it's unbelievable it
works if you do it the right way but
people are not educated they don't know
that glucose drives cancer they never
never heard of mitochondrial substrate
level phosphorilation the way glutamine
drives ATP synthesis in the mitochondria
in the absence of oxygen so they have to
be educated in knowing the biochemistry
and biology of what they're dealing with
and that's not what's happening today
many of the oncologists are trained only
to know what they do how much dose of
this chemical can I give the patient
before harming them in it's very
significant way how dosage and timing
how much radiation should we give what
what series of rad all that stuff you
don't need to do that and if you do it
you can do it on a completely different
schedule knowing that you don't need as
much nearly the whole key about
metabolic metabolic oncology is how do
we degrade tumor at the same time where
making the rest of the body super
healthy you want to emerge from cancer
treatment healthier than you were when
you started there should be no baldness
there should be no mucocytes there
should be no diarrhea there should be no
fatigue there shouldn't be any of these
kinds of things every time well and that
is a huge problem right now is that
people who are already sick and I think
that there's a a lack of recognition
there's cognitive dissidence there where
people say I I I mean I have to tell you
that 90% maybe even more than that come
to me and say I'm healthy but I have
breast cancer yeah so there's a total
disconnect around what health is and
what health means and then they get into
the conventional medical system and take
whatever Health they had and it gets
destroyed
absolutely absolutely so when you get
that patient up FR they say I I didn't
know I had I just went down they found
some spot lump or whatever um they're
healthy at that point maybe not um as
healthy as we would consider metabolic
homeostasis healthy but they were
certainly not bald gums bleeding
you know all these horrible side effects
that happens after the treatments that
should never happen yeah that's quackery
that tells me that if you treating
patient make their hair fall out and you
have all these microbiome issues what
the hell are you doing to these poor
folks you don't make somebody healthy by
a poison and IR radiating them and the
new drugs these IM opdo katuda and all
these crazy things that you hear about
they're all based on the somatic
mutation theory yes every now and then
you get 20% of the folks will benefit
from those 60% will have nothing and 20%
will be killed it's called
hyperprogressive disease the drug will
kill you before the tumor does okay
hyperprogressive disease well known in
the field okay why would you give a drug
or any treatment to a patient that has a
15 to 20% chance of killing them blowing
the liver out destroying their kidneys I
mean this is nuts this is tells me that
the field does not understand the
biology of the disease they're treating
they're not trained in medical schools
they have no clue about how the power of
nutrition and diet again together with
drugs that work synergistically can
manage all these different diseases so
true yeah so I and we have the science
to support what we're saying this is not
like you know I've done 25 30 years of
the of the mechanistic minutia that
supports what I have what I'm saying and
I don't expect everybody to jump into
that but they should know the outcome of
what we're saying is a manageable
disorder and OT warberg was the first to
identify cancer as a metabolic disorder
but AO warberg never developed a
therapy that would exploit what his
knowledge base was the only way I could
get into that was my years of work with
epilepsy before I could see the linkages
and then see that we have another fuel
that could be fermented besides glucose
so once I realized that and I I've
offered I have a $100 bill always in my
pocket to any student that can show me a
tumor cell that's doing really well
without glucose and glutamine in the
environment okay fatty acids or anything
you and they can't we haven't found any
yet so and people and and when you look
at the research that's being done
sponsored by the National Institutes of
Health they're studying all these cancer
cells in in vitro in the dish the
culture dish and they're all growing in
glucose and glutamine and then I said
well why don't you take away the glucose
and glutamine and they said well we
won't have anything to
study I say well what do you do do you
want to resolve cancer or do you just
want to study
I mean we've studied it now for years
that's that's the question I mean do
they want to resolve cancer because I I
and again I know this is cynical I know
this is cynical but where do the
pharmaceutical companies go if they so
if we solve the cancer problem you know
we you know it's a disruptive technology
people just got to move forward there's
always going to be an entrepreneur that
will figure out how to make a buck on
some of this stuff unfortunately I'm not
that
person I I have certain skills knowing
how to make a lot of money on what I'm
doing is not one of them uh what I want
to do and prove is that this is a
manageable metabolic disorder that we
can uh keep people healthier a lot
better for a lot longer than anything
that's out there and to me that's
gratification if some guy can figure out
how to make a billion dollars on this my
hat's off to him but uh but that's not
me I'm just happy to know that this
works because I did so much science on
this we Night and Day Day and Night
weekends all the time thinking about how
to kill cancer cells without harming the
rest of the body yeah that's it Focus
cancer is as a metabolic disease is part
and parcel that you know that is the end
of the line for a country that I I just
heard the latest statistics and that's
that
90% of Americans are not metabolically
healthy no so you know we're talking
about cancer but cancer is the end of
the spectrum of a lot of other things of
you know the insulin resistance and
diabetes and cardiac dis cardiovascular
disease uh dementia Alzheimer's I mean
you know we're we're talking about all
of these things fit in that bucket well
that's you're 100% right the American
diet and lifestyle is killing Americans
and not and not only killing Americans
uh I just read in the Wall Street
Journal yesterday that's where I get
most of my not most but a significant
amount of my uh understanding of cancer
comes from the Wall Street Journal that
really tells you what's going on in the
cancer industry you have to know about
this stuff but uh I didn't realize that
uh China has the greatest number of
obese people on the planet because they
took our lead oh yeah they um they got
the American taste yep
the flavor of America I don't think they
had a fraction of the medical problems
until the 1980s where the fast food
industry oh yeah went there oh man I
tell you fast indry we can destroy we're
destroying ourselves obesity has
replaced smoking as the number one risk
factor for for cancer and and uh I as I
said if people were really really
concerned about preventing cancer you
would not have an obesity epidemic
period it's not that complicated um and
it's really tragic when you see all
these little kids that are obese their
life their lifespan is going to be
significantly reduced uh uh and you know
the parents don't know our everybody's
running around trying to make a buck uh
they don't have time to sit down and and
make dinner nutritious dinners in the
evening you just throw something into
the microwave whatever's there uh uh
sitting in traffic no exercise stress no
exercise highly processed foods Bang
obesity cancer dementia all kinds of
macular degeneration cardiovascular
disease you got it right there but we
have a a great
industry uh the pharmaceutical industry
that's that's right there to help us out
so uh by giving us drugs uh so we don't
need to lose weight we just have to take
OIC or some other crazy thing and uh
then the the burden of respons and
people like they don't they don't really
want they don't it's hard for a lot of
people to do this it's easier to shot
it's way easier and what I heard from
one of my I I was speaking at an event a
few years ago and I was speaking of the
fact that you know healing uh sleeping
is an active process and that there are
many things that are happening in the
body as we sleep and you know metabolism
and cellular repair and all these kinds
of things and the truth is that without
sleep you cannot heal and this happened
to be a woman with metastatic disease
and she put up her hand afterwards and
she said 'you know I've heard you speak
a number of times and what you say may
be true may not be true I don't know all
that I know is that if I listen to you I
would have to actively do all these
things and it's easier for me to blame
the drug for not working absolutely well
that's our personal um uh attitudes
about things but but that's okay
the person wants to do that that's okay
but what we're not what we we know now a
clear path for management not everybody
is going to be able to do metabolic
therapy they're they they'll be more
than happy to give you radiation and
poisonous chemicals if you want that
okay someone says listen I got to have
radiation and chemo I don't want to you
know stop uh stop eating jelly fil
donnuts all right so that's your choice
that's your personal choice we're not
depriving you we're not going to deprive
anybody of taking toxic poisons and
radiation the issue is that you have an
alternative here and every physician
should tell the patient it might it's
going to be hard you're going to have to
really you know buckle down take charge
of your own you're now you're
responsible for your for your your
outcome so your soul ultimately we're
all responsible for our existence but
you know whatever path you take is the
one that you can choose we're not
telling everybody to do metabolic
therapy you know if you want radiation
chemo fine but but the issue is that you
should also know there are other ways to
do this and I think a lot of people when
they're diagnosed with with cancer fear
the treatments as much as they fear the
disease they don't want to be surgically
mutilated agreed you know um and you
know there's been big studies on breast
cancer showing that the overall survival
between lumpectomy and mastectomy is not
any different there's been several big
trials on that and yet they're taken you
know I I spoke to one a ter terrible
thing uh oncologist breast cancer
oncologist don't why don't you go do
lumpectomy and rather than do these
horrific Surgical mtil
it's easier to remove a breast than do
this this lump thing and he says it's
you can it's like fing a fish taking
someone's breast off and I'm saying man
that doesn't that's not the kind of
thing that you want to hear no no it's
terrible and we we actually have a huge
epidemic in this country because women
make this decision out of fear yeah and
the doctors don't help them to make the
right decision and I think that if we
called it what it was things would be
vastly different so if we called it a
breast amputation which is what it is
yeah far less people would choose that
than a
mastectomy but we gave it a name that
was acceptable and people accept it and
I feel especially badly for the 40,000
women who are diagnosed with dcis every
year in this country which is not cancer
and they are undergoing mastectomy they
are undergoing amputation of their
breast for a disease that would never
have threatened their life W and they
are forever mutilated their lives will
never be the same and in fact we affect
their quality of life and their quantity
of Life yes because if you add in
aromatase Inhibitors if you add in the
drugs that affect hormone balance and
hormone presence you're going to
materially change their health you're
going to change their heart health
you're going to change their brain
health you're going to change their bone
health and this matters yes and and all
contributes to entropy the second law of
Thermodynamics which is disorder and the
and mitochondria function maintain order
in our body so anything that would cause
uh stress on our mitochondria over time
shorten our lifespan on the planet so
all of these things that you just
mentioned are all entropic they they
lead to disorder and quality of life
goes down overall survival goes down e
even if you don't have cancer anymore
your bodies have been uh T toxified if
you will and and that creates uh other
problems in fact there's here at Dana
Farber they had a a branch a couple of
few years ago cancer survivor medicine
uh so there by the grace of God you
survive cical surgical mutilation uh
poisoning and radiation now you become a
candidate patient for neuros psychiatric
problems hormonal problem digestive
problem bone bone density problems you
become a new patient for a new source of
medicine all this all of this did not
need to happen in the first place none
of this is is this is why it's one I
consider it one of the greatest
tragedies in the history of medicine is
this this misunderstanding of what
cancer is because we've un unnecessarily
put millions of people shorten their
lifespan and and red their quality of
life significantly and all because of an
ideological Dogma that says that cancer
is a genetic disease and therefore we
have to use Precision medicine and all
this kind of crazy stuff that's not
related to what the nature of the
disease is so and people will say to me
sometimes well it has to be genetic
because it happened in all my my aunt my
uncle my they're all in the family
that's all common environment as
well right you know so people don't
understand that and they said well what
about braa one and and what about Leaf R
many and we have tracked down every
germline mutation linked to cancer risk
damages in one way or another the
function of the mitochondria so it's a
mitochondrial metabolic disease whether
the risk factor came in your genome
which is very rare or it came from an
environmental insult like obesity
hypertension inflammation exposure
carcin our environment is becoming more
and more filled with these microplastic
carcinogens and all these things things
you put that together with an inflamed
internal environment with obesity um uh
sleep apnea creates intermittent hypoxia
all of these things together yeah Metals
metals are a huge issue all of this
micro infections yes yes so all of that
but you know interestingly enough there
was a study done with some uh macac
monkeys out of South America some uh I
don't know 25 30 years ago where they
rubbed the chemical carcinogen on the
arm of the monkey and then they injected
was three bromo it was three
methylalanine which is a known
carcinogen and for 10 years they rubbed
the the chemicals on the monkey's arm
and they injected the monkeys with this
thing and none of them developed cancer
I think there was one out of out of 500
monkeys that got some small kind of a
tumor their conclusion was the monkey
that monkey is a bad model for
cancer but the monkeys were not eating
jelly fil
yeah they were not they were not they
were doing their natural diet and
lifestyle and this was goes back to our
Aboriginal folks uh Albert schwier the
Great physician humanitarian he didn't
find cancer in 40,000 Africans that he
looked at in the early 1900s I think it
was and Eskimos and all these kinds of
people that lived according to their
natural ways they never had cancer
there's never been a documented case of
breast cancer in a female chimpanzee
which are 99% similar to us in genetic
and and protein quences what's going on
with that why all these women are
getting breast cancer it's our a great
American diet and lifestyle it is and I
mean you know we can look at population
studies and people who live in their
native country and on their native diet
and then get transplanted to the United
States and live and eat like Americans
and we see that their disease rates go
from what their native disease rates
were to ours yes purely environmental
and all those things damage mitochondria
leading to a fermentation metabolism so
and this and the organel controlling the
cell cycle maintaining the
differentiated State loses its grip
metabolically these cells fall back on
disregulated growth which is cancer
disregulated growth how did that happen
the organel That was supposed to control
this was damaged by any number of risk
factors leading to disregulated cell
growth driven by glucose and glutamine
and they can't use Ketone bodies so
there's the solution to the problem
right there now the problem the bigger
problem is you said is how do you
communicate that information to the
public you know and effectively and get
them and get them to adopt it because if
if we could if we could live in a way
that didn't promote disease it would be
a different story but we don't we don't
and I would love a Utopia where we did
but right now I don't see that happening
and it's not coming so let's give people
who are interested in taking control of
their health who are interested in
escaping the highly highly damaging
therapies that are offered within the
conventional medical space even if
they're going to dip their toe in and
and use them to some extent what is the
metabolic therapy what is anabolic
therapy and how do people engage in it
well this is one of the a bigger bigger
issue because I get a lot of I comments
on the YouTubes that I do this guy talks
the talk but where do we go where's the
clinics how I I outlined a clear plan
for health and managing cancer where are
the clinics and this is where the people
have to demand from the National Cancer
Institute where are these clinics that
should be treating us the appropriate
way why are we why do we not have these
clinics
right we know what to do and how to do
it we can train people it doesn't take
that much time we already have a
protocol in hand to do this why are we
not where where where do you go where do
you get the drug Dawn why is Dawn not
available why do we have katuda ABDO
these these terrible kinds of drugs that
make and they and why why do we spend
billions of dollars advertising this
crap on the evening TV making people
think there these cancer drugs are are
are there for you yeah okay and that
it's gonna and that it's a solution yeah
it's not a solution and and and and the
other the other thing that kills me or
gets me very upset is not only do we
have physical and mental toxicity
associated with cancer treatments you
have Financial toxicity people cannot
afford these drugs they're so expensive
I would say if you want to charge
$26,000 a month for a four Monon
schedule of one of the
immunotherapies you should only pay if
you're alive after five years and in
good health otherwise you don't pay they
should they should pay you to do the
right this is the way it should this is
but this is not the American way you got
to pay up front Okay so and that if you
die the privilege of them poisoning you
yes and then if you die that bill can be
passed on to your loved ones crippling
them you know a lot of folks don't have
$26,000 a month even if the insurance
companies cover 80% of this you know and
people would say you think the insurance
companies would want to be doing this no
their their premiums are based on how
much money you spent I I'm just I'm just
learning that now yeah yeah all of this
is all connected so and I told one of my
students one time said look at the
connection between the food industry and
the pharmaceutical industry powerful
interconnections that
multi of course they're feeding one
another no pun intended I'm not against
like any kind of a fast food I I don't
think we should get rid of any of these
things but I think people should
understand that this stuff can kill you
but it doesn't kill you like a cyanide
pill kills you it kills you slow over
time it wears that's really the problem
is that it doesn't kill you fast enough
and so people cannot feel the connection
it's not it's not palpable to them it's
not tangible to them no and you know
basil metabolic rates uh ba BMI basil B
basic was a BMI indexes that's why we
developed now listen we developed the
glucose Ketone index calculator for the
cancer patients this was what I
developed it for letting cancer patients
know when they're in therapeutic ketosis
so then they could make
adjustments now I find that so many of
these young folks health health gurus
kids that want to look buff girls and
guys how tough and look at the beautiful
bodies and all this they're all like
comparing their their glucose Ketone
indexes knowing that if you keep a low
gki you're going to look really
fantastic yeah and biohackers are doing
this yeah so it was made for cancer
patients but now people are using it
just to stay healthy you know so uh
which is okay with me I didn't make it
for that and that was another thing we
couldn't patent people say Oh by look at
all the people using the gki you guys
made it I didn't get a Nick we can't
patent a formula you can't do
that so all of our res you can patent a
process though and you should yeah well
you know uh I'm trying but I it doesn't
we just want to make sure that what
we're saying is scientifically correct
corroborated seen again and again and um
uh and and and it works okay um that's
our that's my and then our mission to
get research funds uh comes from private
foundations in philanthropy you know
there are people out there it's
unbelievable well I shouldn't say it's
unbelievable but there are folks out
there that really want to be part of the
the process this movement just because
to feel good about it because you know
we're doing something to help millions
of people yeah stop the suffering and
and uh the more we develop uh Perfection
of these diet drug combos the more we're
going to learn and make the process so
much easier and healthier for people so
uh and we need you know these mice cost
money to do our pre-clinical studies and
then I've got the armies of Physicians
that would like to apply that to their
to their patients right away we need
trained people we need people to
understand why cancer develops the way
it does why we talk about glucose and
glutamine why are they fermenting you
know all this kind of stuff it's not
that you know a few course where it get
certification I am certified to do
metabolic therapy on a patient so you
would get a training in a certification
that will allow you to open a clinic
because I can tell you there are people
that can you can make money on high
throughput treatment of patients uh uh
with these processes as long as you know
what to do and how to do it so it's not
do do you need a clinic or is this
something that could be done
virtually um it could be done virtually
uh but I still think leave even if I
were to have cancer and I wrote half of
this stuff I have friends that are
treating patients every day in some of
these trying to put these Pat patients
on on track and I would like to just to
talk to somebody you'd like to have some
consultation yes it can be done
virtually my my colleague Miriam
calamian who has a certified to to to do
Miriam has treat she I mean I gave her
so many patients that she poor thing she
almost collapsed from having so much to
so many virtual things you know but
we're uh because there's too few and far
between there was only a handful of
folks that really understand the full
nature of glucose how glucose and
glutamine and all these things can drive
the tumor you go to some oncology
clinics they never heard that glucose uh
drives cancer no they're they're giving
them boost and ensure while they're
getting their chemotherapy it is no this
this should never happen um so clearly
there's some lack of knowledge massive
gap of knowledge what happened in this
medical school education I don't know
what happened here what what do you
think of the work that volter Longo is
doing at USC yeah well he he's doing
water only fasting to improve the the
well he's also doing the fasting
mimicking diet which is um I I don't
know if it's it's 400 500 calories
something right around there is that is
um a fat-based macro diet sure as long
as it keeps the glucose Ketone index at
2.0 or below then it's going to be
therapeutically effective we we've seen
this over and over again so people want
to call you want to do a Mediterranean
diet make sure it doesn't keeps your GK
ey down pescatarian diet vegan diet
carnivore diet that make any difference
to me as long as you get your your gki
to 2.0 below people always ask me can I
eat this can I eat that I said eat it
and see what it does to your gki if it
ja Jacks it up don't eat that so it's
the person knows because what's good for
one person may not be good for another
person so each person is their own uh um
bomb calimer so they their burning
calories may be different from somebody
else so it's not like what I should eat
or what I should not eat every person
should test it for themselves and see
what they can and cannot eat and then
they'll know so and you get the meter
the keto Mojo meter is out there you can
get it on Amazon and you get the strips
the glucose strips and the ketone strips
and then and I know you have the free
Libra uh which is a constant glucose
monitor I think I heard from some of my
colleagues that they're trying to work a
glucose Ketone free Libra kind of thing
but and other I think the Technologies
are coming to so people can get a full
readout on their cell phone of how
they're doing and I when I do uh when we
uh do recommend I don't recommend
anything but I think what what works
best for I IV vitamin C and hyperbaric
oxygen is the time of the day when the
patient has the lowest gki is when you
go into the into the chamber and do the
hyperbaric oxygen because the ketones
are going to protect prevent oxidative
stress in all the normal cells where the
tumor cells will be maximally vulnerable
during that time of the day so that's an
individual thing as well some people in
the late morning others the early
afternoon sometimes late afternoon
people have have to know their body
before they schedule some of these other
procedures that will be add-ons to to to
what we're doing so again this is the
whole package called metabolic oncology
metabolic therapy it brings all of these
things in together and the patient then
takes charge they love a lot of people
love recording all this stuff you know
they like their steps every day oh look
at my GK and we published a paper on
Pablo Kelly from England who had the
gleo blastoma he's still alive 10 years
almost 10 years now and you could see
how we collected all five years of
glucose Ketone index data on this guy um
so you can see the tables in there this
is what people can do to to record this
and Pablo still has the tumor in fact
he's just had his third debulking but
he's never taken radiation or chemo or
anything for that matter and I I think
at this point he could do a good
metabolic therapy with uh parasite drugs
uh and Dawn and if he were able to get
it to kind of put a real clamp down on
this on this tumor so I don't know I
think people are going to live far for
far longer at a at a higher quality of
life whether it leads to a cure or not I
have no clue because we haven't been
doing it long enough but all I see right
now is a lot of people that should have
been dead and they're walking the planet
and they still feel pretty good and uh
and that's going to be the future once
we get it into a into a bigger operation
this is what's going to
happen that's really amazing I want to
ask you because you mentioned well
obviously as we know that the data
around exercise in people with cancer is
that people he even doing minimal
amounts of exercise have greater
survival um so do you think that that
has to do with increasing
oxygenation and you also mentioned that
exercise lowers glutamine yeah yeah that
I think both I think it's a combination
of both many of these kinds of metabolic
approaches work through multiple systems
so exercise brings oxygenation and
reduces glutamine okay so that's
favorable to managing uh managing the
you have to realize our ancestors
Paleolithic man so to speak before
recorded history they call them hunter
gatherers okay Hunter gather well you
have you know how much energy exercise
you need to track down and kill a kill
an animal that doesn't want to be killed
okay you have to expand a lot and you're
Gathering digging Roots out of the
ground and trying to do you're
constantly looking for food and the food
that we're eating over tens of thousands
of years was minimally carbohydrate and
minimal carbohydrates so glucon
neogenesis became the primary source of
providing us with energy glucose and
only during seasonal periods of time
could you get something that was kind of
sweet now our whole diet diets are
filled with highly processed
carbohydrates that lead to obesity
rather than and then down here at Dana
Farber they had some of these folks
saying oh uh obesity is a genetic
disease yeah are you kidding me we we
all heard that that's like nuts I mean
these people have no clue about
evolutionary biology this is what
happens when you take people that look
smart doing very stupid things they have
no clue uh we evolved to store energy
over tens of thousands of years because
we were a starving species and all of a
sudden we're now in an environment where
it's everywhere we've got obesity
because our genes told us we needed to
store energy because we were going to
starve to death if we didn't store
energy so now we're storing energy to
the point where now a chronic disease
every kind of a chronic disease we can
think of is exploding because we're
storing all this energy causing massive
inflammation poor calories poorly
nutritious highly processed
carbohydrates no exercise man it's a
it's a recipe for disaster Health
disaster yeah and we're we're on the
disaster train we just sent it over to
China and now they got the most obese
people on the planet yeah so uh Taste of
America yeah uh and you know again it
comes down to it's easier for people to
hear it's easier for them to believe and
they actually want to believe in the
gene Theory because it absolves them
from responsibility and I listen I'm not
saying that no one wants to take
responsibility for their health but
there is a lot of guilt and blame and
shame involved in all of these disease
States and you know what did I do and
and how could I have done this to myself
uh and so it's a lot easier it's an
easier pill to swallow part in the pun
yeah that that it's a it's a genetic
State yeah yeah well it's it's not you
shouldn't feel that you you you just get
bad luck like some prominent scientists
published in the in the journal science
that cancer was just simply bad luck uh
this is the so misinformation and that
they should they should know better
let's put it this way those kind of
people should know better to say stupid
uh uh thing like that which is not
linked to evolutionary biology at all
because because they're saying that oh
you know the the different organs that
uh replic Place uh worn out cells are
more likely to get cancer just because
the cells replace themselves at a
certain but the the chimpanzee replaces
them at the same damn State as us and
they don't get the cancer nor did our
Aboriginal ancestors so so um some of
these statements related to the makes no
sense and then we have can listen to
this we have cancers where they can't
find any mutations all right how do you
call it a a genetic disease when there
aren't any mutations yeah they call
these driver genes so people say oh it's
not all mutations just the driver D
driver Gene so now we're doing deep
sequencing and we're finding all of
these so-called very very hazardous
driver genes in abundance in all normal
cells that never become cancer how do
you explain that this is complete
nonsense and when you do the nuclear
transfer experiments you completely
aerate this whole Gene Theory and yet
we're building all these drugs based on
the sematic mutation Theory all those
immunotherapies you hear about we're
going to Target this I have the irk
mutation I have the epidermal growth
factor receptor mutation this is not
nonsense all of those cancer cells are
fermenting they can't live without
glucose damn what kind of mutation they
have
yeah yeah no I hear you listen you're
preach preaching to the choir so I have
one final question for you because we've
you've given me so much today and my
audience so much today and I'm sure that
they are going to be hanging on every
word you said um I'm not sure if you
know this about me but I am a witch so
I'm G to wave my magic wand
and what changes in
2024 in terms of Cancer Care that we we
did not have in 2023 what what if I
could wave my magic wand what would I be
doing for
you um for us well as I said our
research must continue um and the more
we can perfect metabolic therapy and get
it into the
clinics uh is going to edce overall I
think I think the first evidence that
we're on the right path will come when
you start to see lower and lower each
year the number of dead people goes down
uh will it be as dramatic as the AIDS um
um drop in death when they when they
built the the AIDS cocktail because
don't forget it was a death sentence
back in the early late 70s
80s until Ronald Reagan didn't want to
hear about this about the gay the the
gay community uh went to Washington DC
blocked traffic on Pennsylvania Avenue
and spread the ashes of their loved ones
all over the White House lawn and within
six months uh this was taken care of so
with a with a non-death sentence
associated with it right the same thing
can ex the same thing can happen with
the cancer problem is if enough people
get together and and the other thing too
is they're always but that that feels
like you're saying that they're sitting
on the cure I don't I don't think that's
the case in terms of a pharmaceutical
solution well don't forget don't forget
the AIDS has never been cured it's been
managed it's not a cure it's a
management we're sitting on a management
strategy that's not being implemented
that's a different I'm not saying we
cure cancer I'm saying we have a
management strategy that could be as
powerful as the AIDS management strategy
because you have not cured AIDS you've
just Managed IT so can we do the same
thing for the cancer problem can we can
we know that we've had cancer but we can
sometimes live with it in a in a way we
can continue to manage it and maybe res
cause resolution I I don't know okay
because we have never cured any of our
mice uh We've allowed them to live far
far longer than would ever been expected
but to say we've resolved the only thing
that I published that was that
resolution was with the dog with the
massell tumor on his face and I
published that in in Frontiers in
nutrition you can see that paper you can
see this dog this woman took the dog put
him on a calorie restricted ketogenic
diet with fish oils and raw eggs and raw
chicken and within six months this big
big tumor disappeared from the face of
this Pitbull uh the dog was like seven
years old when it had the tumor and it
died at 16 and a half years which is
longer than a pitbull would live from
heart failure but the cancer never came
back so um that's the only thing we know
how do you know you're cured for cancer
well I di some guy died at 98 years old
from a heart failure when he had cancer
when when he was 33 years old so he
never cancer never came back so I mean
those are the kind but aren't we all
constantly living in a state of
potential to develop
disease um well I certainly think in our
in our in our environments for sure but
we have you know we have old folks um
that are centurions that have survived
all of these kinds of things um and you
know when people die from old age
natural we call natural causes it's a
very interesting look at the Queen of
England I mean she was shaking the hand
of the new prime minister one day and
she was dead like the next day and uh uh
what happens is the energy metabolism in
your body just shuts off it's like a
whole systemic
thing done you're you're done okay you
you've you're check out you you
fulfilled your mission Moses's 120 you
fulfilled your mission you know you like
to know that that's the way you would go
uh rather than suffering some
immeasurable uh
uh poison of radiation and all this kind
of stuff that we we currently put these
poor folks through this medieval
medieval medical treatment but that's
that's the end the last decade of most
people's lives in the United States not
I mean not necessarily cancer alone but
cancer heart disease
diabetes um neurod degenerative diseases
like this the last 10 years of people's
lives in this country are not quality
lives well uh for some people it is but
I agree with you the the nursing homes
are filled with with these poor folks um
but okay but we're dealing with cancer
here when we and we're seeing it younger
and younger this is the other thing that
I can't see I I I'm seeing so many
people contact me in their late 20s and
mid-30s and I'm saying what's going on
with that uh and child people always ask
me what about Childhood Cancer well you
know uh little kids can get this for
this all we know is that when we look at
the biochemistry of the brain tumors
from little kids uh they're all
fermenting how did their meoch condra
become damaged in the womb or shortly
after birth what went wrong in the
brains of those little kids all we know
is when we look at their tumor they're
fermenting like crazy so that means that
there was some insult whether it
happened in the wound from a chemical or
a blood vessel problem uh a chronic
inflammatory whatever it was it
initiated a tumor that's very
metabolically similar to that of the
adult okay they're fermenting how it
exactly happened we're not sure how
anybody's tumor like for example a
breast cancer woman gets breast cancer
she may have the bracka one she may have
been exposed to chemical carcinogen she
may have had uh intermittent hypoxia
chronic inflammation all we know is that
when we look under the got mammograms
year after year that could be all we
know is when the pathologist looks at it
under the microscope it looks like
cancer and they die stage one two three
or four they've been doing that for 85
years because the cells how many how
many mitotic divisions do you see you
know it's like and all we know is the
more mitotic divisions the more they're
fermenting they're more they're
dependent on glucose and glutamine and
if you take and then people talk about
turbo cancers I don't care about a tur
turbo we can kill turbo cancers just as
effectively as we can kill non-turbo
cancers so benign cancers um they don't
you know interestingly enough they have
a metabolic problem but a metabolic
therapy doesn't kill them or Shrink them
as fast as it does a malignan cancer
it's not it's really interesting and we
learned out what metastatic cancer was I
I know that the metastatic cell it's
macras part of our immune system gobbles
up glutamine like this's not tomorrow I
mean we've worked out all the all the
detail on how to almost every kind of
cancer so it's just that the knowledge
is not out there yet yeah and once it
gets out there people are going to have
better understanding of all well I I
hope they do and I hope that it gets out
there I do want to ask because I I meant
to ask you this before what about the
people who come to the disease and are
underweight what what do you do about
those people in terms of fasting or um
ketogenic diets because we know that
they're often associated iated with
weight loss yes and that well weight
loss yes that's an important point and
um they are also in in metabolic in
homeostasis as well we have to do
careful blood work on those and then
sometimes only a short period of um of
fasting very little very you have to
really be very careful with those kinds
of folks but they can be TR they can be
transitioned into a healthy body weight
from having a a uh
underweight in these there's underweight
conditions that we have to be careful
about but then you raised another very
important question about weight loss um
so many oncologists fear weight loss
because they say oh take as much sugar
and infill as you possibly can but but
it's that's because you're poisoning and
irradiating somebody or they have CIA
which is all pathological weight loss
therapeutic weight loss is when you lose
the weight you get healthier and
healthier yeah not sicker
there was some guy who had a 350 pound
guy with cancer some bladder cancer he
was afraid the guy was going to lose
weight I mean for Christ hey the guy
weighs 350 pounds you know you're
worried about losing 10 pounds because
you're I mean this is nuts yeah I I I
think that they have taken the CIA issue
and blanketed it across the cancer
Spectrum but the truth is that at least
in the breast cancer world most patient
most people who present with breast
cancer have um issues with being
overweight and not underweight but EV
but occasionally I do see people with
CIA and and I worry about the issue with
them with fasing and with K that's why
we have the drug Dawn that the glutamine
targeting drugs because Kia is caused by
the metastatic cancers mobilizing
mobilizing energy out of the muscles yes
we know we know what kind of cell that
is and it's extremely dependent on
glutamine so we have to go in and we
pulse that and kill the cancer cells
once you kill the cancer cells CIA goes
down yeah so we we've looked into all of
this there's not many things that we
have not encountered in this whole
cancer field the only problem is
implementation yeah is to be implemented
in the clinic yes well my wish for you
in 2024 is that you get those people who
can Implement into to your um micro
environment and learn about this and
start to use it with their patient
population because this is the only way
in my opinion that we are going to make
a demonstrable change in this area and
it is not easy I agree I know it takes a
huge commitment on behalf of the patient
but this is going to be People's Choice
do you want to live or not because if
you want to live this is that path
that's right you're absolutely right and
they once they're told that then they at
least have the the plan the outline in
front of them the path right and the
people should write to the uh new
director of the National Cancer
Institute she was just appointed
recently I can't remember her name right
now but they should be F funneling their
letters to her she's obligated as a
government employee to answer your qu
why are we not doing metabolic things
therapy let her tell you what the answer
give us give me the answer why doesn't
she tell us why they're not doing
metabolic therapy that's the
government's job to do that yeah I agree
and as we both agree this is going to
have to come from the people because I
don't think that industry I don't think
that conventional medicine I don't think
that they're keeping up with it in the
same way um there's very little
motivation for them to do that in as
much as they're not trained and they
would have to actively seek it we need
to change the way that we're training
our physicians without question yeah um
and you know that is a Grassroots thing
that has to happen I know that it's
happening in the integrative world but
it is not happening in the conventional
medical world and you know I am one of
those people that when I went to medical
school I had 15 hours of Education with
regard to nutrition and its implications
and we basically learned about scurvy
and rickets and that was about it yeah
well that's the problem right there yeah
but you know since we have this
conversation we know that 70 people have
died from cancer in this time we've been
talking in this time that we've been
talking so you have to think about this
happening all the time day and
night so it's really a tragedy and it
but it doesn't have to be that way and
you're right the people have to make a
stand on this Y and they they have to
notify others they have to demand it
otherwise it's not going to happen all
right well I'm with you we're going to
change the world yeah hopefully at least
for this particular disorder yes for
this particular disorder we're going to
change the world actually it changes a
lot of things um so Dr CED thank you so
much for being here for sharing your
Brilliance for doing the work that you
do for your contributions which are
endless and um I of course support you
and will support you in any way that I
can because of the importance of the
work that you're doing well thank you
very much I appreciate that and thank
you all for joining me today I'm sure
you were hanging on every word and if
you liked this if you liked listening
please please please share it with your
friends and your colleagues and anyone
who you think needs to hear this and I
will see you again next week it's Dr
Jen bye for
now
[Music]
oh